Add Data Transfer user documentation (#52)
EGI-Foundation/documentation: content/en/users/datatransfer/api/_index.md

---
title: "API"
linkTitle: "API"
type: docs
description: "Documentation for EGI Data Transfer API"
weight: 30
---

## Overview 

The EGI Data Transfer service offers API both for Users and Admins, in this section 
we are focusing on the User API.

> 2 APIs are available to users:

Reviewer: Maybe it's more developers than users?

> 2 APIs are available to users:

Author: I addd this part on the API as for for DataHub we did the same, we can keep this or remove the API section from both

> 2 APIs are available to users:

Reviewer: I think it's nice/useful to have access to information about API.
I was more willing to say that it may have been phrased, but users is fine:
```
Two APIs are available to developers:
```

- RESTFul API
- Python Easy Bindings

In both cases users need a way to be authenticated and authorised and this is explained
in the next section.

## Authentication & Authorisation

{{% alert title="Warning" color="warning" %}}

Users have to authenticate using a X509 User certificate. The integration 
with EGI Check-in in order to authenticate via OIDC tokens  
is under development and will be later made available in production endpoints.

{{% /alert %}}

During the authentication phase, credentials are delegated to the FTS service, which will \
contact the storages to steer the data transfers on behalf of the users.

The FTS service supports both plain X509 proxies than 
[VOMS](https://italiangrid.github.io/voms/index.html) X.509 proxies extended with VO 
information for authentication and authorisation.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### VOMS configuration

Every VO needs two different pieces of information:

-   the `vomses` configuration files, where the details of the VO are
    stored (e.g. name, server, ports). These are stored by default at
    `/etc/vomses` and are normally named following this convention:
    `<vo name>.<server name>` 
-   the `.lsc` files that describe the trust chain of the VOMS server.
    These are stored at `/etc/grid-security/vomsdir/<vo name>` and there
    should be one file for each of the VOMS server of the VO.

You can check specific configuration for your VO at the [Operations
portal](https://operations-portal.egi.eu/vo). Normally each VOMS server
has a *Configuration Info* link where the exact information to include

> in the *vomses* and *.lsc* files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the `vomses` and `.lsc` files.
```

Reviewer: It's what you used after

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

VOMS client expects your certificate and private key to be available at
`$HOME/.globus/usercert.pem` and `$HOME/.globus/userkey.pem`
respectively.

### Creating a proxy

Once you have the VO information configured (`vomses` and `.lsc`) and
your certificate available in your `$HOME/.globus` directory you can
create a VOMS proxy to be used with clients (voms-clients package) with:

```console
voms-proxy-init --voms <name of the vo> --rfc
```

Plain proxies can still be created via 

```console
voms-proxy-init --rfc
```

## RESTFul API

The User RESTFul APIs can be used to submit transfers jobs (collections of single 
transfers), monitor and cancel existing transfers. Please check the CERN [
documentation](https://fts3-docs.web.cern.ch/fts3-docs/fts-rest/docs/api.html) for the 
full API details. Here we will provide some examples usage using the Curl client.

> ### Checking how the server sees us

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Checking how the server sees the identity of the user
```

```console
curl --capath /etc/grid-security/certificates -E $X509_USER_PROXY 
--cacert $X509_USER_PROXY https://fts3-public.cern.ch:8446/whoami
{
  "dn": [
    "/DC=org/DC=terena/DC=tcs/C=NL/O=Stichting EGI/CN=Andrea Manzi",
    "/DC=org/DC=terena/DC=tcs/C=NL/O=Stichting EGI/CN=Andrea Manzi/CN=proxy"
  ],
  "vos_id": [
    "6b10f4e4-8fdc-5555-baa2-7d4850d4f406"
  ],
  "roles": [],
  "delegation_id": "9ab8068853808c6b",
  "user_dn": "/DC=org/DC=terena/DC=tcs/C=NL/O=Stichting EGI/CN=Andrea Manzi",
  "level": {
    "transfer": "vo"
  },
  "is_root": false,
  "base_id": "01874efb-4735-4595-bc9c-591aef8240c9",
  "vos": [
    "dteam"
  ],
  "voms_cred": [
    "/dteam/Role=NULL/Capability=NULL"
  ],
  "method": "certificate"
}
```

> ### Get a List of Jobs Running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Getting a list of jobs running
```

Filtered by VO

```console

> bash-4.2# curl --capath /etc/grid-security/certificates -E $X509_USER_PROXY 
> --cacert $X509_USER_PROXY https://fts3-public.cern.ch:8446/jobs?vo_name=dteam 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl --capath /etc/grid-security/certificates -E $X509_USER_PROXY \
  --cacert $X509_USER_PROXY https://fts3-public.cern.ch:8446/jobs?vo_name=dteam 
```

  {
    "cred_id": "1426115d1660de4d",
    "user_dn": "/DC=ch/DC=cern/OU=Organic Units/OU=Users/CN=ftssuite/CN=737188/CN=Robot: 
    fts3 testsuite",
    "job_type": "N",
    "retry": -1,
    "job_id": "94560e74-7ca3-11e9-97dd-02163e00d613",
    "cancel_job": false,
    "job_state": "FINISHED",
    "submit_host": "fts604.cern.ch",
    "priority": 3,
    "source_space_token": "",
    "max_time_in_queue": null,
    "job_metadata": {
      "test": "test_bring_online",
      "label": "fts3-tests"
    },
    "source_se": "mock://somewhere.uk",
    "bring_online": 120,
    "reason": null,
    "space_token": "",
    "submit_time": "2019-05-22T15:09:22",
    "retry_delay": 0,
    "dest_se": "mock://somewhere.uk",
    "internal_job_params": "nostreams:1",
    "overwrite_flag": false,
    "copy_pin_lifetime": -1,
    "verify_checksum": "n",
    "job_finished": null,
    "vo_name": "dteam"
  }
]
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

> ### Cancel a Job

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Cancelling a job
```

```console

> curl --capath /etc/grid-security/certificates -E $X509_USER_PROXY --cacert $X509_USER_PROXY  https://fts3-pilot.cern.ch:8446/jobs/a40b82b7-1132-459f-a641-f8b49137a713 -X DELETE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl --capath /etc/grid-security/certificates -E $X509_USER_PROXY --cacert $X509_USER_PROXY \
  https://fts3-pilot.cern.ch:8446/jobs/a40b82b7-1132-459f-a641-f8b49137a713 -X DELETE
```

```

> ### Get Expiration time of delegated credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Getting expiration time of delegated credentials
```

```console
curl --capath /etc/grid-security/certificates -E $X509_USER_PROXY --cacert $X509_USER_PROXY https://fts3-public.cern.ch:8446/delegation/9ab8068853808c6b 
{
  "voms_attrs": [
    "/dteam/Role=NULL/Capability=NULL"
  ],
  "termination_time": "2020-07-31T22:50:28"
}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Python Bindings

The Python bindings for FTS can be installed from the EPEL package repository 
(EL6 and EL7 packages are available) with Python 2.7 being supported.

```console
yum install python-fts -y
```

> For using the  bindings, you need to import fts3.rest.client.easy, although for 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For using the  bindings, you need to import `fts3.rest.client.easy`, although for 
```

> convenience it can be renamed as something else

Reviewer: ```suggestion
convenience it can be renamed as something else:
```

```console
import fts3.rest.client.easy as fts3
```

In the following code snippets, an import as above is assumed.

> In order to be able to do any operation, some state about the user credentials and
>  remote endpoint need to be kept. That's the purpose of a Context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to be able to do any operation, information about the state of the user credentials and
remote endpoint needs to be kept. That's the purpose of a Context.
```

```console
context = fts3.Context(endpoint, ucert, ukey, verify=True)
```

The endpoint to use corresponds to the FTS instance REST server and it must have
the following format:

> https://\<host>:\<port>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`https://\<host>:\<port>`
```

for instance ```https://fts3-public.cern.ch:8446```

> If you are using a proxy certificate, you can either specify only user_certificate, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using a proxy certificate, you can either specify only `user_certificate`, 
```

> or point both parameters to the proxy. user_certificate and user_key can be safely 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or point both parameters to the proxy. `user_certificate` and `user_key` can be safely 
```

omitted, and the program will use the values defined in the environment variables 

> X509_USER_PROXY or X509_USER_CERT + X509_USER_KEY.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`X509_USER_PROXY` or `X509_USER_CERT` + `X509_USER_KEY`.
```

> If verify is False, the server certificate will not be verified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If verify is `False`, the server certificate will not be verified.
```

> Here some examples on how to create a context, submit a job with a single transfer 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are some examples about creating a context, submitting a job with a single transfer 
```

> and get the job status:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and getting the job status:
```

---
title: "API"
linkTitle: "API"
type: docs
description: "Documentation for EGI Data Transfer API"
weight: 30
---

## Overview 

The EGI Data Transfer service offers API both for Users and Admins, in this section 
we are focusing on the User API.

2 APIs are available to users:

> * RESTFul API

Reviewer: Before you have been using `-` instead of `*`.
Please also removed unneeded empty lines/double empty lines.

* Python Easy Bindings

In both cases users need a way to be authenticated and authorised and this is explained
in the next section.

## Authentication & Authorisation

{{% alert title="Warning" color="warning" %}}

Users have to authenticate using a X509 User certificate. The integration 
with EGI Check-in in order to authenticate via OIDC tokens  

> is under development and will be soon made available in production endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is under development and will be later be made available in production endpoints.
```

{{% /alert %}}

During the authentication phase, credentials are delegated to the FTS service, which will contact 
the storages to steer the data transfers on behalf of the users.

> The FTS service supports both plain X509 proxies than [VOMS](https://italiangrid.github.io/voms/index.html)  X.509 proxies extended with VO information for authentication and authorisation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The FTS service supports both plain X509 proxies than [VOMS](https://italiangrid.github.io/voms/index.html) X.509 proxies extended with VO information for authentication and authorisation.
```

### VOMS configuration

Every VO needs two different pieces of information:

-   the `vomses` configuration files, where the details of the VO are
    stored (e.g. name, server, ports). These are stored by default at
    `/etc/vomses` and are normally named following this convention:
    `<vo name>.<server name>` 
-   the `.lsc` files that describe the trust chain of the VOMS server.
    These are stored at `/etc/grid-security/vomsdir/<vo name>` and there
    should be one file for each of the VOMS server of the VO.

You can check specific configuration for your VO at the [Operations
portal](https://operations-portal.egi.eu/vo). Normally each VOMS server
has a *Configuration Info* link where the exact information to include
in the *vomses* and *.lsc* files.

VOMS client expects your certificate and private key to be available at
`$HOME/.globus/usercert.pem` and `$HOME/.globus/userkey.pem`
respectively.

### Creating a proxy

Once you have the VO information configured (`vomses` and `.lsc`) and
your certificate available in your `$HOME/.globus` directory you can
create a VOMS proxy to be used with clients (voms-clients package) with:

> ``` {.console}

Reviewer: Usually we are using ` ```sh ` or ` ```console `.
